---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ox-fp/expressions/3-3-types/"}
---

Haskell has types! Wow, so amazing. However it's so prevalent an idea it's kind of scary.

A function can be categorized by its *type*, which is a type of the form `type a -> type b`. Lists themselves can also be categorized by types, specifically `[type data]`. n-Tuples are also types, but this is just a product, so it's not really as interesting, except there is the 0-tuple, if that's interesting.

Haskell supports type synonyms/naming with the `type` keyword:

```haskell
type Name = [Char] -- If you want to define a name as a sequence of characters
```

You can override existing types if you want, but existing types are *probably* typed their own way for a reason. Haskell also let's you do the reasonable thing where you define a type based on the possible constants it can take. This uses the `data` keyword, which lets you describe constructors:

```haskell
data Bool = False | True -- Bool can be either False or True
```

You have to set up the structure on these, as currently they're just constants that are of the type Bool. Because Haskell is kind, we have the soft types `Maybe type` and `Either type a type b`:

```haskell
data Maybe a = Nothing | Just a -- It could be type a! Or nothing.
data Either a b = Left a | Right b -- No idea what the left/right are doing here
```

The `Just` constructor sends something of type a to the `Maybe` type. Same with `Either`, with `Left` and `Right` being the two types of constructors, which you'll use depending on the type of the input, since order matters. Confusingly this allows for `Either Int Int`, and distinguishes between `Either Int Char` and `Either Char Int`, but that's probably fine, since you'll never actually need it to be unordered (hopefully). 

Since `Pair` is a function, you might also want to define a type:

```haskell
data PairType a b = Pair a b -- Basically (a, b)
Pair :: a -> b -> PairType a b -- Basically what happens above
```

Note that this function starts with a capital letter (whoop), which is unique. Also, names for types/constructors can be the same thing, since they're fundamentally different operations and therefore can be named the same:

```haskell
data Pair a b = Pair a b -- It looks stupid, probably because it is, but it's honest and very nice
```
