---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ox-fp/functions/1-2-types/"}
---

[[fp_notes.pdf#page=3&selection=26,0,28,5|fp_notes, page 3]]

We define the type of a function to be on the type of input to the type of output it does, notation wise this is $f :: X \to Y$, for function $f$ and types $X, Y$ . For example:

> sin :: Float -> Float
> home :: Person -> Address
> add :: (Int, Int) -> Int
> logBase :: Float -> (Float -> Float)

[[fp_notes.pdf#page=3&selection=56,0,59,36|fp_notes, page 3]]

On an aside, the *float* type is for single precision floating point numbers. The *int* type is for limited precision integers. We have $(X, Y)$ defining the pair type where $X, Y$ are pairs (it's a tuple). For notations within the code, types are Capitalized, while variables are lowercase. Similarly, parenthesis are optional in lieu of a space, i.e. `sin theta == sin(theta)` programmatically.

For functions with multiple inputs, such as `add`, you do need parenthesis to do `add(x, y)`. You also need parenthesis for certain operations, such as `sin (pi/2)`, as otherwise it will divide by 2 after computing `sin pi`. However, there's a trick that logBase does to get around something like this.

Note that logBase is defined as mapping from the type Float to the function class Float to Float. This is because the first input maps the base, and the second input is to the new function that is returned. So, these all read the same:

- logBase 10 2
- (logBase 10) 2
- logBase (10) (2)
Technically, one can write

```haskell
logBase :: Float -> Float -> Float
```

which is the same as the original type definition.
